another summer day has come and gone
away in Paris or Rome but I want to go
home cuz this place sucks I should I
should have that that should have been
the
lyric Michael Bo smoothest singer child
the king of Christmas Have a Holly Jolly
Christmas everything I did was music I
would listen to Frank sinat Bobby Darren
Dean Martin I don't know I just do
emulate them and then I would steal it
all cuz if you steal from one person
you're just a thief but when you steal
from everybody it's research but there's
10 years of clubs 10 years of every
agent saying the exact same thing we
will never sign you but the reason I
didn't stop in those 10 years was
because if the right person sees me I am
one of the greatest entertainers on
Earth I can play 50,000 people and if
there's one looking at their watch I
will play to that man I'm not leaving
here until I break you H I'm a
feeling good but in a
moment my son's cancer diagnosis was a
sledgehammer to my reality and I
remember saying to myself if we get out
of
this
um if we get out of this I'm living a
different life and I feel like I'm at at
this point where I wanted to do
something different Michael you're
you're not going to quit music are
you
quick one this is really really
fascinating to me on the back end of our
YouTube channel it says that
69.9% of you that watch this channel
frequently over the lifetime of this
channel haven't yet hit the Subscribe
button I just wanted to ask you a favor
it helps this channel so much if you
choose to subscribe helps us scale the
guest helps us scale the production and
it makes this show bigger so if I could
ask you for one favor if you've watched
the show before and you've enjoyed it
could you please hit the Subscribe
button thank you so much and I will
repay that gesture by making sure that
everything we do here gets better and
better and better and better that is a
promise I'm willing to make you do we
have a
[Music]
deal Michael what do I need to know
about your earliest context to
understand the way that you are because
you are a unique individual
personality-wise talent wise your life
is full of uniqueness so where is the
what is the oven because I always think
about humans like an oven yeah um you
know they get cooked in this oven when
they're young what is that oven what is
that environment well the environment
was probably having the most incredible
family and everybody says that everybody
says and of course that's beautiful that
people always think their family is the
most special but if you met them you'd
like them all more than me and then for
me personally I think being the first
child who um got way too much
attention you
know probably got told like you're aming
amazing and you're good at every and
like uh it's probably the reason I talk
so much but everything I
am everything I have every decision I
make is based
on that family even deciding you know I
want to be a singer this what I'm going
to do at 13 14 you know by the time I
was 16 my grandfather was already taking
me to nightclubs and when I started
playing in the nightclubs at
1819 they were full and I was raw but
they were full full and people were like
what who is this kid like why did how
did he fill up babaloos or how did he
fill up the purple onion or how did he
fill up you know this theater well they
didn't know but it was my cousins and
aunts and my my grandparents and my Mom
calling all of her friends and saying
come to the club so this was a strange
family affair because we had no
connections I wish I had nepotism to
lean on but
uh I didn't and uh so instead it took
all of these incredible people just
loving me and going yeah let's go let's
I mean I was shocked I was a fisherman
you know my fa my great-grandfather
immigrated from Italy he was a ship
Builder um my grandfather was a
commercial San salmon fisherman on a
sane boat um that took him away a lot
right your father yeah sure for sure
yeah which is something that we
understood and uh it's interesting
because um who knew that after leaving
that life and having that thing where
your father's gone quite a bit would be
the life that I ended up Le leading you
know where I had to be gone quite a bit
and um the only difference
was I could say Dad why are you leaving
and he would say
son this is my this is my job this is
how I put put food on the table this is
how um this is how dad pays for for our
house and for the for the holidays that
we go on and everything and it changed
for me after a certain amount of success
because my kids would say poppy why are
you
going and I couldn't say you know it's
to pay to put food on the table you know
because obviously it was you know we
passed that point got very lucky so how
do you answer that question uh I answer
it by well I don't just answer
it with with language I I answer it with
action so um I have
probably I've probably made my
tours uh I would say financially maybe
one of the most irresponsible tours in
in all of touring um so I started a rule
where I said I will do three weeks on
two weeks off two weeks on two weeks off
so that I could come back or I would
literally sit with my wife and she's a
tremendous actress you know and she has
a great career and I I know how
fulfilled she is by it and so I would
say to her let's sit down at the
beginning you and your manager pepo and
me and my manager Bruce and uh let's go
through the calendar so when are you
making those two films okay June July
I'm done I come with you and it can't
happen if I tour in a financially
responsible way it's so interesting to
me because I'm coming into that phase of
life now I'm going to be starting a
family soon and I'm going to be getting
married and it's interesting to hear
from you about the tradeoffs you have to
make and you have more experience in
both sides of the cost and the benefit
of those trade-offs did you miss your
father growing up oh man of course I
miss my dad I remember used to and I
said you know it's interesting cuz I am
so lucky to have been born when I was
born because my nights on tour away from
them like tonight I mean last night for
example last night was doing a
zoom and uh they put their iPad in the
room and I sat with them and I watched a
Christmas movie and uh we they ate
popcorn and Poppy was there I was just
there I was you know they were walking
around and wrestling and um they it's
really strange to say this but uh I did
this thing have you ever heard of calm
yeah the app the C app yeah I know the
found yeah it's it's the like I so I
used to listen to this com app to go to
sleep my wife hated it and um same with
me and my I I was on the gram North show
and Matthew MCC was a guest and I was so
excited and grahe was like why why are
you so excited well everyone loves MC
said oh no no no I I love because my
wife would hate it but every night I
listen hi it's Matthew hey hey hey I got
a sleep story for you and I would like
listen every night and I was like
Matthew you sleep with my wife and
I I was like and and I was like I listen
to your calm sleep story and it became a
you know he he was very good sport and
he thought it was funny and then C
called and they were like hey you want
to do a sleep story I was like hell yeah
I want to do a sleep story but I didn't
know so last night that's every night's
the same so we chill and then I put on
Poppy's sleep story oh hi this is
Michael and tonight in this sleep story
We and the kids just
go that's so beautiful so what I was
saying about you were asking about my
father dude my dad used to carry a sock
full of quarters and every two weeks
he'd come into port and he'd wait in
line at a pay for pH and then he'd call
and then he used to oh man it makes me
emotional
but and I do the same thing now but he
used to uh he would leave notes and he'd
hide them everywhere and so he'd be gone
for like a month or something and you'd
go into a drawer to go get your you know
pencils and and then you'd see the note
and
uh I remember being like seven eight
years old and I don't know if you ever
did this stuff or maybe I'm just a weird
kid but I remember like holding his
clothes being little and like and just
crying you know missing him so much and
this was the closest thing that I would
get to him and uh and it's crazy that as
life went on I became dude I'm him like
thank Jesus thank God I'm him but I
turned out to be my dad your granddad
played a huge role in your life didn't
he Grandpa Mitch Grandpa Mitch yeah huge
huge massive as a ma as a matter of fact
yesterday I did one of the probably
scarier things that you can do in this
entertainment business I uh I was asked
to be a
surprise guest to sing a song as a
tribute to Barry Gibb in the bgs in his
induction into the Kennedy Center Honors
which I I think is in my opinion maybe
if not the Pinnacle one of the Pinnacles
of of uh Americans uh celebrating
culture but weirdly enough my grandpa um
he passed away 5 years ago yesterday oh
wow and so um more than anything I was
standing backstage and
um I could hear my
introduction and I was like my mouth was
dry and my heart I could hear my heart
beating in my ear and uh I just took a
big breath and I said like wow Grandpa
okay this is us man this is us and um I
always think about my kids and say like
okay be strong don't let your kids ever
see you weak don't let your kids ever
see you scared and weirdly it just
brought this wonderful calm over me and
um it was really nice man like I I it
just brought me calm and I went out
there and I thought I killed it I
thought I was very
Charming he was my hero is my hero um at
13 years old we were always best friends
I don't know why you know you know dude
sometimes certain people you connect and
it's like you were made for each other
and that was my best buddy we talked
about hockey and we talked about music
and even at a young age I was fascinated
by by the Great American song book I was
just I didn't know I I didn't understand
and I remember being
confused why I was the only one too how
could other people
not
understand that Nat King Cole is that
unbelievable what's wrong how could they
how how does someone age not hear EP
fitgerald and just [__] a brick and
realize that is stupid that's just too
good or that that gorgeous uh orchestral
arrangement of that song and those horns
doing that thing and that that swinging
like I know hip-hop is great but no that
beat that I just heard in that Dre song
that isn't close to being as fat as the
one I just heard um backing up Bobby
Darren in Mac the knife like that's
smoking I knew 13 years old oh dude even
before that for me music was it wasn't
even a question it
was it it was a defining part of my the
essence of me like I every everything I
did was music was just you know a
Fascination and it's funny when many
times parents will go like my daughter
is 14 and she's and do you have advice
you know she wants to be a singer and I
always I have advice and it's like
Listen to As Much music and all of it
like go across the board of every genre
and download it and process it and steal
all of it steal the best parts of all of
it and you will find yourself but
another thing I always say is
fantasize like dude that is for
me I would fantasize
about being on stage I would fantasize
about singing in front of the crowd
every shower was another opportunity to
go and [__] kill Madison Square
Garden and you know know that the uh you
know that that crowd in the shower was
just loving Madison Square Garden orever
you know like you know what I mean like
I was 14 absolutely and like thank God
there wasn't like the voice or American
Idol cuz if I was 13 I would have been
in the shower like hey Simon check this
out um did you sound good at that age do
do you have recording you have like you
know yeah man I do I do have recordings
CU I'm wondering how much I have a
recording when I'm 14 and it tripped me
out because I sound ex I don't know if
it's good but exactly the same exactly
the same what and I think it was like it
had to be you I sound like that I sound
exactly like that the same way and um
what's weird is like it wasn't like I
put on an effect that's what that's how
the voice sounded and uh my buddies used
to make fun of me had one of my best
friends Brad would be in the bus and he
go there's bé singing with that fake
voice again there's and even today and
he's still my one of my be literally one
of my best friends and we're drinking
beer and he's he's like shut up man and
he loves to sing too and uh but um I
couldn't believe how much your
grandfather and your father and your
family
supported you oh yeah when I was reading
that your grandfather would trade
Plumbing work yeah man for for you to go
and do singing lessons or you know
auditions
Etc that's that's
unusual because most parents would go oh
my God my child singing that's not a
career no I know I know it was
uncomfortable too because he loved me so
much listen dude my grandpa did more
than just trade his Plumbing things he
took me to auditions he would I when
they used to hire me um to go go work in
the malls and he got me like these gigs
where they would pay me 20 bucks an hour
and then I would go to the mall and with
a a guitar player and I would like busk
I guess it's busking is what it is right
and I would go or outside I'd busk at
Grandville island or places and he would
just sit and I loved it man I didn't
care who was listening where I was I did
anything what was the first song the
first time you performed in front of
other people and got a reaction the
first song weirdly was uh was I think it
was a Christmas song really well it was
cuz it was Christmas Eve we were coming
home from uh this is I've told the story
many times but it's we were coming home
from uh my grandma and grandpa's on
Capitol Hill and uh I think it was like
white Christmas or something and my
little sisters I would have been 12
maybe 11 12 my voice was just starting
to change and um and the girls were in
the back my two s my sisters are great
beautiful voices and they were I'm
dreaming of a why christas you know with
every Christmas card I write and I think
from the back I went may your days be
merry and
bright and it was like the whole car
went and I think that was the first time
they were like what the is that where
did that just come from and
uh what's interesting is I think if I
really am honest with myself and I look
back that Bing Crosby was the first
cuz that was like that was the first
record in that style and that played
through the house at Christmas that was
my introduction to big band that was my
introduction to Jazz that was my
introduction to um those that swinging
feeling and
then with that relationship with my
granddad he used to we used to have a
some a shag he has like a green shag
carpet and he had a a record machine
that that he attached to a cassette
machine and we would sit down and we
would just for I'm not kidding you man
hours I loved it I loved it and I used
to go with those cassettes and I had a
Walkman and I would just sit in bed and
I would listen over and over and then I
would I would listen to each of these
singers and um and I would learn the
song for Grandpa and Grandma so I could
come over the next day and I could I
could sing for him and I'd sit at the
table with him and we you know but I
started to just steel I mean steel
fullon
steel and
uh and I started to like almost
impersonate each of them and I would
listen to Frank Sono with the pi Pipers
there was ways that he would sing and I
would try to emulate so I would sit
there and then I would it would be like
I was a record player you know I'd come
home and Grandpa would say okay what's
today Stormy Weather and I'd say don't
know
why there's no Sun up in the sky Stormy
Weather I can't do it now but and then
the next day would be okay he go Dean
Martin Dean Martin and uh I'd say I
don't know why I love you like I do I
don't know why I just do and I would
emulate them God damn I like listen to
The Mills Brothers and when I'm saying
all of this you probably have no idea
sometimes what I'm talking about CU yeah
the way the Mills sing there was this
weird I want to buy a paper doll that I
could call my
own that other fell or that I just he
would the way he would open up and
everything was so the very thought of
you and I forget to do and there was all
these things that I would just like oh
my God I love that and that and then I
would steal it all and I would try to
emulate all of it and then one day you
know sitting with Grandpa I started
realizing okay I'm starting to wow
Grandpa I'm starting this is the way I
do it now taking all those things and
that's what creativity is right it is
man and I met I've told this story too
too many times but I remember the first
time I met Tony Benet I said uh you know
Tony I'm obviously you know I'm a huge
fan I've stolen so much from you and
Bing and Frank and all of them and he
said uh good he said cuz if you steal
from one person you're just a thief but
when you steal from everybody it's
research and I thought that was amazing
and I've told that story a million times
too but it was everything man like Elvis
was a big part of it and you know I just
all of those things that I loved but um
why was your grandfather doing that in
hindsight why was are you kidding me
dude yeah like are you kidding me so it
was better than crack for who for both
of us it's my happiness it's my it's my
passion it's my thing and you know and
like I I love um he would have died to
know that his grandson was continuing
the legacy of Our Heroes you know cuz if
he was being honest when I played
Madison Square Garden for the first time
and I said did you think I'd get here he
said oh no no definitely
not there's a clip of him on a on a
documentary he goes no I thought you'd
be good you know maybe
Vegas um but I just think it was because
how could I we were this my grandpa was
a plumber and we came we're fishermen we
didn't know anybody we're never going to
get we're never going to get to there we
didn't even know we're from Vancouver we
didn't even know anybody how are we
going to get to there your story is not
a straight line because you went and
worked on those fishing boats as well
like so it's not just you start singing
at dud my story isn't even a straight
line from from fishing boats to
Chuck-E-Cheese to working at restaurants
to singing It's there's 10 years of
clubs there's 10 years of me moving to
Toronto there's 10 years of me going
into every record company not getting in
the door there's 10 years of every agent
saying the exact same thing every
manager I thought they had a [__]
note that they would send each other the
not that said you're really talented
you're a great young
kid we just don't know what to do with
you over too much dude to a point where
I was like you know what okay I'm 26
it's too late and in this business you
can people can say oh 26 now dude it's
late if you have him been signed you
haven't made a bunch of noise at
2627 I don't think it's right I think
there should be late bloomers but it's
it isn't the usual you know like the
record companies will be
like and uh so I was going to go back to
Canada I was going to go back to
Vancouver and I was thinking about going
to SFU or Douglas and taking up
journalism so even then once I I was in
Toronto I got I got you know connected
to uh the prime minister of our country
who their daughter was getting getting
married and she asked if I would sing at
the wedding and cuz I'd given an
independent CD to another guy at some
corporate gig I had done um and
um they said I I I was like yeah okay
you know I what an honor you know and
she was like you know David Foster will
be there and this one this producer who
and he's a one of the biggest producers
in the world billions of I mean half a
billion or a billion records I think
okay this is my chance this is the shot
for somebody to see me
but even then after he saw me this story
didn't it wasn't
like he didn't David Foster didn't say
you I found my guy he said come to LA
and uh you're on my he actually said
you're on my radar now is what he said I
didn't know that he had another 18 kids
that were on his radar you know I was
you know man I got I was good I was
going to I was in the atmosphere now you
know I was closer than I'd ever been to
a real
guy 10 years in 10 years in that could
make it like and I remember I think I
have to say Michael I think it's really
very important not to brush past this 10
years because that is the No Man's Land
that only passion could make someone
weighed through and that is where 99% of
people quit and it's the bit that no one
ever gets to see so it's maybe the more
more important part of of of the journey
which is why does someone continue doing
something for 10 years of their life
when there's there's no Madison Square
Gardens there's no million doll checks
and there's no Fame and
Fortune like that that's the because
it's it's a recurring theme on my show
yeah that these very very successful
people they they did something which is
objectively dumb which is like they gave
up their amazing chance of being an
academic and they went and played Magic
on a restaurant card tables comedians
you you could have been a lawyer and now
that're you know it's funny I I was
going to tell you today I I've watched
your I watch your show religiously and I
was like what if you just call yourself
failure and why it's so great because
it's like so many of the stories that
are told across this table are I failed
I failed they said no um over and over
again and over again and I just
continued to to go forward these people
seem like they had no choice though and
when I say no choice I mean because of
passion might listen to me man I'm going
to say it's going to sound like
directly
um it's sort of I don't want it to be
condescending at all but
um half of that 10
years was gave me humility gave me
appreciation for when it would happen I
would be appreciative and I would still
have humility and I would you know still
be able to be a president wasn't una
aware enough of how lucky I was you
know but the reason that I didn't stop
in those 10 years was because I knew I
was the best in the
world I mean no doubt that if the right
person sees me I am one of the greatest
entertainers on Earth and all you need
to do is come into my room and you don't
have to pay to see me you can be there
just to drink booze and get laid but by
the end of the
night you'll you'll know how do you know
that's not delusion no no D you know
what it I knew because every room I ever
walked into I was such a I was a
sensitive um
insecure kid really sensitive and I
think that that beautiful kindness and
empathy that my family drove into me and
my sisters is what made me that man on
stage you you understand there's I even
now man I play 50,000 people and if
there's one looking at their watch and I
will play to that man and my mission my
mission I love the rest of
49,999 of you but you I'm not leaving
here until I break you I'm not leaving
here until you know you get you might
not I might not be your cup of tea I
might not be your favorite but you'll
walk away and you'll say okay the kid's
better than you know he's he's I get it
you one of you kids comes to you and
says Dad I know and and they go Dad Dad
they go no they go Dad listen they sing
and it's terrible and then they go Dad I
know and this is what I'm getting at as
like how do we know we're not just
deluding ourselves yeah because well you
know it's interesting you say that
because if that was just me sitting in
my bathroom mirror and going I'm amazing
yeah that's I understand that that's but
it wasn't it was 10 years of a of I
don't care if it was a shopping mall or
a street corner or a nightclub or a bar
or a wedding or a
funeral every room was the same every
single room was the same so why would
why wasn't the industry letting you in
why would they I didn't do anything that
was mainstream I mean I used to do it
was like I had an indie record I would
do Indie
festivals um it's so funny man I talk
about it now it's like you know I'm so
like main whatever you want to call it
like where I probably you know you know
but I was like an India act it was a
full-on India it was like doing weird
[__] that no one else was doing and uh
um I think it was just so outside even
listen David Foster that David Foster
producer guy I'm talking about um it's
funny he doesn't remember this way but I
I I I remind him many times that like
Dave I said when are you going to you
know when are we going to do this you're
going to produce my record and he said
in quotations I will never produce your
record and we will never sign you never
he had a very sweet assistant named Neil
who's a beauty the sweetest kid and um
when I see him once I mean I would see
him and he would laugh and he would go
dude I remember that I would like say to
you just walk away cuz this isn't going
to happen for you you know he's not
you're not you're not the one I remember
he said to me I he got pissed with me
because I had again said to him hey man
come on like sign me and he was like I
you need to get out you need to go he
said like listen dude I told you you're
on my radar you and another 19 kids are
you know it's just not happening and it
and it's funny
because the reason it happened when it
came down to it was I was like what do I
need to do surely this is not impossible
and he went okay uh it's this much a
track and six tracks minimum and uh
money money and I was like okay and so
this manager and I literally went back
to Vancouver and she was an amazing
woman and she went door to door bank to
bank and we found this incredible dude
who underwrote and and we brought the
money we brought the check and I went to
David's in Malibu and said he said uh we
got it here's the money um David's a
massive producer I think it was 100,000
a
song and uh I think poor David I
remember sitting up he had a this room
in Malibu he had like all the Grammys
all over his piano and and I remember we
were like we got it and he was like you
got it like it was like well okay you
know okay he said but Warner will get
the first ride of refusal and even that
wasn't the end of the story we started
making a demo and that we ended up going
he got Paul Anka do you know Paul Anka
no okay well Paul is I'll remind you of
who Paul an is if you don't know Paul at
16 or maybe 15 had written um a song uh
called put your head on my shoulder put
your head on my shoulder or Diana I'm so
young and you're so old he wrote another
song called my way and now the end is
near huge massive star he is Justin
Bieber okay of course I he's still a
huge star he's still but he got involved
and then he was like you don't need that
money my guys will get the money and for
whatever reason when we started making
the record that deal somehow fell
through and David was like it's over the
money deal fell through yeah the money
deal fell through and he was like it
didn't work out and somebody else will
do this and I was like dude you know and
there was another producer ambera who
was another massive producer beautiful
guy and he said he took me into the car
I was destroyed because I was this I I
was there I was making the record it was
I was four songs into making a record
and uh and then it was done and David
was like I'm really sorry Mike you know
it's just it's just not going to happen
why didn't you quit like Neil told you
to well it a big a big deal was uh
Umberto and he said U he was he's a
Chilean guy and he said hey Bo man you
need a he said you need to I drive you
to your apartment and I was I was dead
like I was I I had it I was there dude
it was there in my
hand it was there and then it was gone
and he drove me home and I remember he
parked I lived in Westwood I had rented
this little place in Westwood
and Umberto parked the car outside and
he looked at me and he
said okay
mikito he
said DAV Foster is a strong guy but he
doesn't like confrontation at all he
said here's what you're going to say to
him and he literally told me what to say
and about three days later uh David had
brought me in hired me to do something I
think it was for Kenny G and his wife at
the time had an anniversary party and I
said David can I speak to you and he
said like okay and uh I took David to
this other little room beside the
banquet hall and literally regurgitated
word for word you know what Umberto had
told me to tell this guy you know David
was my hero right David is a scary guy
when you're you know you're look wow
this is and uh basically the gist of the
conversation was
um we have done something incredible we
have four or five songs here that are
you know they're
amazing please give me one opportunity
to go to Warner Brother records and to
speak to the president and play my case
and if he doesn't want me I will never
ever bother you again you'll never hear
from me again you want me to show up and
do stuff for you I'll do it but I'll
never ask that question again and uh he
was like okay and he I don't think he
did love confrontation and uh I remember
he called me about a day two days later
and he said let's see what a 26y old kid
knows about the record
business and uh I went into Warner
Records in Burbank maybe probably the
scariest day of my life of my life and
uh wood building you know look up on the
wall and and it's Prince and Tom Petty
and
Madonna and Red Hot Chili Peppers and
like you know holy [__] you know
and uh I sat in the meeting with Wall-E
Tom Wally is the president and he's like
real good-look dude like like imagine
like Eric staltz or something but you
know as that you know the executive and
you know uh I he sat down in the office
and I think he said uh well why should
we sign you we have sonaton and repri I
think that's one of the first things he
said sonaton repri what does that mean
so repri was a subsidiary of of Warner
that that Frank had started and and they
had Frank and on the label well you know
they had Sinatra on R you know and uh he
said why should we sign you we have
Frank must be like getting to the Pearly
Gates and having one
opportunity to get
in and I said with all due respect Mr
Wally Frank's dead you know don't bury
the music I said I will keep it alive I
love it I cherish it I will break my ass
for you I will go out there and I will
will this to be great and uh he sat he
listened to the four demos and then 2
days later I I had flown my grandfather
down to La cuz I I mean I had and it's
funny when I walked out with David that
day I say thank you David for putting
your balls on the line for me like that
I said so what do you think and he
looked at me and he said I think you did
a great job uh but
Mike I I have no idea what that man is
like he had no idea and he honestly I
don't think he had any
concept when we walked out of those
doors what Mr Wall-E was going to say
you know and then two days later I flew
my grandfather down I said grandpa I
can't do this I need you man so we flew
down to LA and uh in that little
Westwood apartment and I was down in a
on the treadmill and uh the door sort of
flung open and he and the manager at the
time Bev they opened the door and they
were just crying you know they said you
know come yeah come upstairs come
upstairs
come upstairs you know and so we took
the elevator up and I grabbed the
telephone and uh said hello and David
said hey Mike man and I said hi David
and he said uh hey Mike man I want to
welcome you to Warner Brothers records
and I want you to know we have your back
and you're never going to have to worry
again and it was like man it was I don't
know and again dude it sounds like
that's the end of the story
but that wasn't the end because the
record came out
and it was awesome but I believe I
debuted at 198 on
Billboard and uh I had a manager named
Bruce Allen uh he was known as the one
of the greatest managers in the business
and still is and he said to me kid
you're an American signed act but
um it's not it's it's not you're not
killing it there's not there's not a ton
of Interest he said um would you
consider going to Southeast Asia in
Africa and I was like yeah I'll go
anywhere you want and I did dude I just
started going to all the and man that's
where it happened I made it and my first
big hit was in the Philippines South
Africa I started to do pretty good I'd
sold a couple million records and my
manager Bruce would call and he would
say uh Hey
kid you want to go to Germany i' say
like what's in ger well they just they
got about eight journalists there and uh
you'd be singing in the Hiatt Lobby
doing a showcase and uh you know and I
guess there might have been a thought
even that point maybe that's beneath and
I was like no [__] man go yeah and I did
it dude I just went literally man I did
that
in all over Asia Switzerland ger po like
dude you named the country and I shot up
and did a showcase and what age were you
and you thought [__] this is you know
this is big now oh
probably probably 30
20 29 so like it's happened late for me
man like it this whole this whole thing
happened late I was really for for what
isn't the norm yeah man I I didn't know
what I my first taste of Fame at
maybe
28 that is so and it was in the
Philippines and I went to get sushi at a
mall in Manila and there there was a
security guy he was like don't go
without me and I was like yeah sure and
I went went and bought sushi and then
all of a sudden I was like surrounded by
all these beautiful Filipinos speaking
to go and asking for pictures and I was
like and uh I remember he was really
pissed with me he was really upset that
I hadn't taken him to security I was
like why I don't need security and then
he took me we went up to my room and I
was like dude I'm sorry like that was
crazy like I've NE this is crazy I feel
like like a [__] backstreet boy or
something you know like they were they
and then he I remember that he opened
the curtain and this curtain opened and
it was a building facing us and the dude
the full building was just my face you J
yeah and I was like oh [__] I understand
now this is but dude it was so new you
know when you've had to fight to get
there for say 14 15 16 years whatever it
is is there a part of you that is sort
of innately scared of losing it in a way
that someone who just got got it like
that might not appreciate yeah there was
there for sure there was man and does
that result in work Holm there is for
all those there is for you I'm sure you
sit and go like I'm kicking ass right
now but you know
what well but you know why because
naturally everything that goes up must
come down no there's no there is no
career I don't give it I don't care if
you're a school teacher or you're a
doctor I mean nothing just continues to
go I mean um you have to understand that
there are Peaks and valleys and that
there are times when um you might not be
the hottest but those are the times when
you continue to uh stay true to the
brand you know you don't panic it's hard
not to panic like I was talking about
Paul Anka
but you know Paul is very sweet like
he'll call me just out of the blue and
he'll go like hey dude you're the man
don't don't trip you know whatever
you're feeling if you're feeling it's up
or down just keep doing your thing man
be true to yourself don't panic and it's
beautiful beautiful it's a beautiful you
know and listen for me having four kids
and an incred like a wife that is my
favorite human being in the whole planet
that made it makes the process of that
worry easier because you know it's funny
dude I I was terrified yesterday at that
event terrified man I wanted it to be
great and scary to be in front of your
peers that's something you know is so
important and uh this morning I woke up
and I was brushing my teeth and I was on
FaceTime with my wife and the kids you
know and uh and she said okay how are
you how do you feel and it was like I
said listen Lou I
said Faith number one my family number
two and my career a really you know a
distant third and so for me I'm I'm
blessed to to really feel that because
of course I get scared man I don't want
to lose it and there's a million ways to
lose it
and but I also haven't put all of my
eggs into that one basket has it always
been as clear the priorities no man no
of course not absolutely not and by the
way there can be times where my fault
self allows that to change my fault self
yeah my fault self my I would say the
ego um I I you know I I you know I
should read more acolan power of now and
they tell stories about the hockey team
that I'm a part owner of the Vancouver
Giants he talks about a the ages how how
substantial that that is but uh he is a
big part of my life too you know and by
the way practicing to get to this place
where it's really easy to let your fears
and and your uh your faal self give you
these negative messages and and um it it
was helpful for me to to understand that
I could control that you know not not
allowing those negative things to get a
hold of me one of my sort of deep I
think existential fears is that I'm not
going to have my priorities in the right
order and I'm going to find out too late
I've said this a few times on this show
yeah I'm scared that as a guy who's like
spent I don't know 12 years building
businesses and pursuing success and
whatever form that life is going to tell
me Steve at the moment when you needed
to have your priorities in order they
weren't when maybe want to have a family
or a wife or something you know what was
it that changed illuminated the true
nature of what your priorities should
be I I listen I like I said to you
before this whole thing starts with
family and I I I have never been so out
of touch because I have too good of a
family my mom and dad are just they just
they're just too beautiful people and my
grandparents and um listen I may not do
it but I know what the difference is
between right and wrong and and um and
putting ego first um I don't want to get
too deep into it because it's it's not
it's not that it is uncomfortable for me
but my son has his own life and his own
story um my son's cancer
diagnosis rocked my world it pulled a
curtain from over my eyes and um I don't
want to get deeper into it but I can
tell you
that
um I don't think that I had what you're
talking I don't think I had
context and that was a sledgehammer to
my reality and
um I will I will never be carefree again
in my life and that's okay um it is a
privilege for me
to to exist and uh and that that pain
the fear the suffering that comes with
those sort of things is I guess it's
part part of that beautiful this life
you know it's uh but it I if I wasn't
clear and I wasn't clear and it's
interesting because when it actually
happened I was going through I think a
crisis like really like the crisis that
you're talking about you know um I don't
think I had my priorities straight I
mean I I I I always my family was always
a love of you know I think I don't think
I was a terrible guy but um
dude it was
blinders
career you know ambition how do I become
the baddest biggest best uh you
know more ego more power more money more
and um on Halloween however many years
ago that was dude it's like life was
lived with like a curtain in front of me
like a filter mhm and the moment that
they said this is what's happening
um I that reality hit me
um filter gone filter gone and I mean in
a moment in
one moment gone and I
went okay this is it this is life this
is this is it this is what's important
um and that's when that's when it's not
like I thought about it it didn't there
was no time to process it it was um you
have your
priorities this this is what your
priorities are and they this is what
your priorities must be in order to be
happy in your life and um it is I just
can't imagine I just it's fa it's faith
family and and a member of my family got
diagnosed with
um a very similar illness and I remember
where I was and Where I Stood when I got
that called and again I'd been running
you know just in my own little world
hadn't called them in a while yeah yeah
yeah wasn't really in touch with them
and then in that exact moment it made me
realize the true reason why I do what I
do like I I you know yeah and that my
life should never have been so focused
on self and such a way if that makes
sense yeah of course absolutely
absolutely dude I remember being at chla
I remember peeing in a stall I know it
sounds weird and it's not sexy
but I remember just sitting in the stall
standing there you know the children's
hpit yes sir and uh and I remember
closing my eyes and saying to
myself if I get if we get out of
this
um if we get out of this I'm living a
different
life a better life and I did I made that
promise to myself in like a moment you
know I want to be kinder I want to be
more
empathetic I don't ever want to allow
that ego and that false self to take
over I want to know how lucky I am and
dude I'm a lucky man like I you know I
just look at I look at my wife like you
know it's like how the how did that
happen how did I get you know this
incredible human being who is the best
of all of us you know to
to sort of lead me through and and Carry
Me Through these things you
know yeah yeah it's a it's a it's it's
um I was just thinking about um goes
back to what I was saying about how I
don't want life life
to show show me my priorities um
especially as it relates to my romantic
relationships where you know you can end
up in divorce court or you lose
something and you think [__] what's what
are all these go coins worth yeah no
know no but I had dude it's funny you
know we've all have those moments too
like listen much younger I had that
moment where I was like oh dude do you
like you do do you trust you do you
respect you and then I was like if you
don't yeah and you're expecting that
person to or any person to maybe you're
asking too much I hope we're allowed to
look at ourselves in the mirror and man
it's so easy to lie to other people but
it's even easier to lie to yourself you
harmful dude it's so easy and it's like
um I hope everybody has the chance to
figure your way to do it I don't know
what it is or how you get there if you
need like medicine or mushrooms or
whatever it is but like to look in the
mirror and to go hey these are the
things that I think I suck at um and uh
you know and I hope I really do I hope
within us there's a opportunity for all
of us to to have that self diagnosis and
honesty and they go yeah I can do better
than that MH you know I on this podcast
so many times I've spoken to parents
about about grief but I've never really
shine Shone a light on just the trauma
of going through moments like that and
really the like blast radius of of not
going affect that person's life that it
can have implications to their mental
health your son Noah is it Noah you got
four wonderful kids I here um is great
10 10 years old 10 years old 10 years
old yeah but for all the all the
priorities and the the curtain that it
pulled
back is there still a healing process
there that that needs to have it happen
that you typically see similar to grief
if you know what I'm saying oh no no no
because you already I think any parent I
mean I've now I've become I've had such
great relationship with so many parents
and people have not just gone through
this I mean listen man going through any
kind of thing with like you know you're
you're not going to get away without it
man I don't know if you have already but
I haven't had kids yet no I'm not
talking about kids I'm talking about
your siblings or your mom and dad or we
all going to go I mean it's just a part
of life it takes a piece of us you know
like my grandpa man I miss my grandpa
every day but that's just that's life
that's a part of life and um I don't
know that any of us even have the
capacity to deal with it I think it's
why obviously we we move to Faith you
know something feels good about hoping
that there's something more but men and
the mental health we don't talk about
these things no dude you must be soft
don't be soft and no crying I'm guilty
of this more than anyone especially as
like a CEO and I've been a CEO since I
was 18 and I had hundreds of employees
so I would I can't I felt like I
couldn't Flinch yeah you know but how do
you can I ask you how do you because you
are a brand now man okay I know you're a
beautiful nice guy human being but dude
there's a brand it's a brand and I know
you have people on your team and I know
you have a team that like they come to
you and say we'd love you to do this and
your team goes you can't do that that do
offbrand yeah yeah how do you how do
you are you able to cuz you're in the
wave man that tital wave is moving but
you're inside it all you got all your
people on top and they can all kind of
see how do you deal with it like what do
you do can you do you feel it do you
think you're self-aware enough to know
what the brand is or how to protect it
or how to move it forward I think it
comes back to this point about
authenticity you know you know when
something you and when it's in line with
you and you know when you're kind of
abandoning yourself there's some signal
inside of me goes you know you know this
isn't right you know especially if
someone offers you a lot of money to do
something oh God I know that's not so
forun go ahead I was gonna say this
shows a good example which is a good
question is what are the sponsors the
sponsors are companies that I uh are in
line with my value so yes you know my
woop my my Zoe my you know the products
that I and I also I'm a shareholder in
those companies they're sponsor the
podcast and I'm in the team yeah that's
a good example of it whereas yes some
Brands aren't aren't aligned yeah I
think what I meant even more than just
Brands is like you know I'm you don't
understand I'm I'm I'm two different
people right who's who's the other guy
well the other guy is this is me I'm
Michael bouay yeah um I'm an idiot who
is I think sweet and um so any guy I met
little bit well I me the other guy from
stage yeah but that's that's a
completely different dude that guy
that's Michael bé this is I'm Mike uh
fantasy football hockey loving idiot who
you know
um you know is a bigger idiot than you
than I'm you're seeing here even I'm be
I'm a little bit more of the suit guy oh
[__] yeah man like biger um I would say
closer to Michael Scott from the office
uh but dude every night I go and I put
on this like this suit and then when I
walk out on stage I become the guy that
I always wanted to be he is so cool and
Teflon and he says all the right things
and nothing can nothing can and I'm I
can be goofy but you know um but there's
this there's an other I mean can I meet
him oh dude you're going to meet him
you're going to meet him I'm going to
make sure that that the whole world
meets him for 20 years I have done the
same thing sick it's been cyclical
Michael writes and U makes a great
record and then I go and I promote it I
go to 40 countries and promote it and
then I go and tour for for a year and a
half and for 20 years it has
been write it promo It Tour it and
um and I feel like I'm at this point of
my life in my career where I I want to
do something different listen again
music will never it will always be my my
happy place and and my love but um I
need time to do some other stuff man I
need time to challenge myself and to to
wake up and go yeah this is different
and fun and um and and it's really it's
about being that other guy not the suit
guy being Mike Being Mike man and and
doing that whether that's in in movies
or television or whatever it is it has
to happen now why cuz dude it's my
favorite part of me and I never I've
never really there was just it was just
too good all the other stuff was
so um cuz I love the other stuff I love
touring I love like I love making money
doing that that's amazing dude what's
the symptom telling you that you should
do more of Mike and less of Michael uh
well just that I honestly truly the
excitement of doing something different
you know like yeah it's time to um it's
time to take that challenge it's time to
to take that trip you know like uh and I
know it's there the same way I kind of
told you like that I had so much faith
in in um in knowing like hey man I think
I'm I got a pretty good voice and I can
be good I'm a good Entertainer like I
can if I do this I have the potential to
really have fun doing that at a level I
think I can I can do for the challenge
as well for the pursue of of yeah it's
fun to wake up and go like you know what
instead of that same cycle I'm going to
do the record make the record sell the
record the music again will always be
there but I need to express myself in a
different way for me man and and it
really isn't for for them it isn't for
the audience it's for me it's like but
is there a moment where you you
something happens because I'm trying to
put this into like my world or whoever's
listening world is there a moment where
you wake up there you go I'm just a
little bit less excited and it's just
Fallen below the level of excitement
that I need to do this again no no no
because man honestly genuinely um I love
being out with I love making dude I just
the music is just it fills me up with
happiness you know so the second I mean
I just did uh i l like a corporate gig
the other night with my voice and this
that band has been with me for 20 years
they're my brothers man
so I get up there and it's like I'm home
you know and it's like it's it's fun
it's it's fulfilling it's everything but
dude it's I'm as fulfilled in in acting
you know when this tour started to wrap
down and I was like you know what I I
want to have fun doing something a
little different everyone can relate to
that in their own context because when
you have a comfort zone per se something
you're really good at yeah and then you
have the rewards also will align with
the thing that you've developed Mastery
in it's very easy to spend a decade
doing or two decades doing that thing
and wake up one day and go [__] I'm a
lawyer why am I lawyer again because it
paid really well and I good at it yeah
but that doesn't necessarily mean it
will make you happy right totally and I
think The Branding stuff definitely had
an impact where all of a sudden it
wasn't we we want you to come and sing
something it was like you know we want
you yeah we want bé we want bé to do a a
bubbly commercial or we want bé to show
up and do an Asda commercial or we want
you know we want you to be the face of
our thing we want you and I was like
okay well what do I sing and they were
like no no we don't want you to sing we
just we want you to be your idiot I mean
that Asda ad that I just did I don't
know if you've seen it that was like
getting to sit with Tao atiti who's one
of my favorite directors and writers of
all time and to have him direct this
thing I mean I I was I had so much fun
and it wasn't singing it was just it was
literally you know we had this talk
about the concept and and we were like
what if I'm this uh I was like What if I
he he said to me like dude dude what if
you're um the head of uh you know
quality control and I was like yes and I
think I know what exact but I'm an
[__] who has no idea what I'm doing
but you know egotistically you I am you
know I'm and he and he understood
exactly what I was going for and we we
laughed we had it was that was three
days of us just you know just laughing
laughing at ourselves laughing and it
that just I was so happy and it's like
another reason why I'm like man this is
my personality this is me where'd you go
for support Michael when you're when
you're struggling or when you're trying
to figure out these sort of impasses in
life is there do have you ever been to
therapy do you speak to you
ever yeah I've been in therapy but I
don't
know I don't know what to say man I
don't know if it I I don't know if it if
it worked for me MH you know like I felt
good to talk about stuff MH but then
after about like four times I was like
am I just am I bullshitting right now am
I just telling her something just to
fill up the hour because I sort of went
through my my big stuff and it didn't
and the therapy doesn't feel like it
worked very
well hey man for me listen my
relationship again with with God and and
that that is a far that brings me far
more satisfaction and uh and so that for
me and by the way and like my wife like
being able to say to my wife like and
I'm so honest with her like I'm like hey
dude I'm not doing good with this thing
andh and and um she's like well stop
being an idiot you know like that's very
my partner is I I think that's part of
the role of being a a wonderful partner
is that they they call you out on oh God
I love you that you're opening it are we
allowed to drink this we are allowed to
drink it if you want to drink it so my
morning my morning just got way better I
just found this on the floor no I didn't
really um Fraser and Thompson yes sir
this is a whiskey brand that I'm holding
in my hands that you have built in a
building with an incredible team of
whiskey experts I know nothing they've
told me that you're in you're driving
this business and Incredibly involved
which is yeah I mean like I'm involved
in in this this I'm you know but like
what do I know about whiskey no I mean
you know about Fraser and Thompson I
mean I know I I know that listen to me I
know that if you don't know what you're
doing you you hire and bring in the
greatest people in the universe who
literally hold your hand and uh tell you
what to do and you know that when you
find a guy like Paul cira who is one of
the greatest whiskey you know
connoisseurs in the world and he and
then you ask him how big his Brewery is
and he tells you idiot is called a
Distillery not a brewery you realize
that you don't know what you're talking
about but this yeah is you work with
Paul phenomenal years dude we years
three years
I tell you what I worked three years
because I wasn't going to be part of
something that I didn't love and uh the
truth
man we tried to reverse engineer a
whiskey for people that may not love
whiskey and
um you know I know that there's high
fute and fancy Dancy whiskies that we
can talk about the oakiness of the
barrel and uh they've been aged 47 years
and uh and this isn't that this is an
approachable drink that truthfully I
love and as you're opening it my mouth
is going
like and uh my wife loves it and my
friends all love it and all the whiskey
snobs I know like it and I'm so proud of
it and Paul cira you don't know who that
is but he's a star no I read about him
dude three years and we went we I I was
a pain in the ass and I drove them all
crazy I've researched I was researching
photos of you and Paul and seeing you
down at The Distillery and Brewery I
know um Fraser and Thompson where do
where does the name come from that's
from my grandpa because when I was a kid
my grandpa used to take us up to uh
camping and we would go to in British
Columbia we have the Fraser River it's
like the muddy Fraser and it and uh we
have the mighty Thompson which is
glacier water and they come together in
this beautiful Confluence and um the
truth is that it was in tribute to my
grandfather but better than that is they
said to me you know we have the juice
now we need a name and like there was
all these stupid idea like Boo and and
then and Serenade in blue and all these
musical things and I was like and every
time I come up with a good one like some
I thought was like real cool and
sophisticated they'd be like that one's
taken and uh finally I was like you know
what why don't I just pay tribute to my
grandpa who is my guy and it's funny man
if you look on the bottle there's all
these little hidden Easter eggs like his
birthday's on 1927 yes sir born at the
fork of Two Rivers Fraser and Thompson
and doesn't it just sound so good it
sounds The Branding youve nailed it
because there's no you have because
there's a story there and it's a very
authentic story but the smell yeah you
know what I really like I I actually
pour out a little bit of the bottle and
then I take like this uh I take like
brown sugar I mix it up and I put like
brown sugar in there with vanilla and a
little bit of Bitters and then I smash
an orange and I just put it in the
freezer and it's weird cuz my wife was
never a whiskey drinker but again that's
what it was for it was for it was to
make an approachable delicious whiskey
for everybody and you know what I really
like about it we were talking about
money so I was like really happy that we
could come up with what it was I think
it like 35 40 bucks and I was like that
is I was like that is great value cuz my
dad as a fisherman he talks about value
all the time cuz even in my ticket sales
he's like if you know son if you just
bring them if you give them value for
their money they'll come back you know
if they feel that they've been ripped
off you'll never see them again so that
was part of the whole thing are you
scared no I can I drink it a little bit
cuz you keep touching it I just can we
have a little here we go at this guy
look at this guy am I scared of getting
wasted with you at the No No it's like a
a reinvention isn't it it's a new
mountain to climb building a a whiskey
company so dud it is it is uh what's
nice to talking about brand it's so me
dude it's just like
it's an easy thing it's me and again you
know how we were talking about the
challenge of
it we were talking about the challenge
this isn't just me this is a this is my
wife we're Partners this is my best
friend Ron my dad um my manager Bruce uh
we all like this is our thing it was
like part of that thing of going um what
can we do that's fun and like and new it
would be really nice to make a Gil
million dollars too you know I have a
feeling it's I have a feeling it's going
to do extremely well because it has all
the core components of just a beautiful
brand and product it's I mean it's
gorgeous in every respect I'm sorry man
I I don't even know what to say this you
know what I hate selling [__] can I be
honest with you I really do I feel
itchy it but it's I just hope people
will go and however they need to do it
get a free what you want them to I them
to just try it I feel like if people
just try it they'll go like bé bé you
don't suck I actually one of the first
things I did was called Ryan Reynolds oh
yeah because this company is the same
these my partners are the same as as
Ryan with his Aviation Jin right and so
I called Ryan and I was like Ryan do
like what do I do and he was like Mike
[__] just have fun dude like have fun I
was like Ryan but I don't know what I'm
doing he was like I didn't he goes you
don't have to know let the let the let
the other people that are helping make
it and that let them know what they're
doing he said just have dude just be
yourself and have fun it's really it's
really incredible so you know one of the
things I always think about people that
become really successful I always wonder
if it's a curse in a way because you've
been such a successful artist you've
been I mean your Christmas record was
released in 2011 I'm so sorry about that
and I'm so I'm told it is one of the
bestselling albums of the 21st centur
crazy you know what's cute yesterday
when I was on the bus I was driving to
the White House because of the Canada
Anan honors my first time you know I
think I was the only Canadian and uh
Sigourney Weaver was behind me and I was
sitting with Sheila East in and uh there
was all these fancy people on the bus
and I got on the bus and um and we got
to the White House and the first thing
that I heard was me going have Holly
Jolly Christmas it's the best time and I
was like oh [__] I am so sorry has that
ever bothered you that you're so you
were so successful with that Christmas
album that you hear yourself every
Christmas at first you know what's funny
like about seven years into it I was
like I was because you know all I would
get was calls it like especially D come
October it was like if you were a famous
person with a movie or a or a record I
was you were calling me like I'm not
even exaggerating like it was you know
and I would get so excited it was like
my God you know this oh my God my heroes
call are they going to ask me to be in
their film are they going to a duet and
it would be like so we're doing a
Christmas and I'd be like oh
[__]
um it's actually funny Jack Jack White
Hall You Know Jack yeah yeah yeah he
called me the other day he's like Mike I
have this idea and I was like you're
gonna say Christmas aren't you and he
was like yes and I was like Jack I love
dude um it's interesting we were talking
about my son and that moment but that
again what was an epiphany moment for me
where I was sitting in the hospital room
and I was like oh my God I am now
synonymous with this beautiful time of
year where people don't treat each other
like [__] and um and there's
kindness and goodness and that's this is
I get to be a part of this and then
people invite me into their homes at a
time that is is everything to them and
their connection with the people they
love and their memories and
and then I started getting deeper and I
was like oh my God oh my God they're not
going to the people aren't going to
remember [__] when I die they're not
going to remember home or the duet or
this is my favorite song Excuse me but
you know what I mean but like it goes
you know what I mean but I'm like dude
200 years from now when I am dead than
dead you know people are going to be
saying Have a Holly Jolly Christmas I'm
going to be there it's so cool it's so
[__] it's so cool yeah I associate
you with great memories good times and I
have have to say home is my favorite
song oh dude I love you thank you i' I
mean we we I was in karaoke before you
came an hour ago and I was said put the
are you joking really no it's on video I
was I went go on YouTube I went put on
Michael bé home and I went lyric video
we're GNA do karaoke and there was four
of us I was the only one singing and I
can't sing yeah but I sang I know every
word I know every word of that song
thank you what's your favorite song of
the Christmas stuff no no no oh of
anything yeah no of the of songs that
you sing and that you yes songs that you
sing songs that I sing of the standards
either your own or somewhere else oh my
God there's so many just one it's
impossible could you impossible man it's
impossible for me home yeah oh yeah
another summer day has come and gone
away in Paris or Rome but I want to go
home cuz this place sucks I should I
should have that that should have been
the lyric
I was yeah I that's it's so weird you
know like not to get too deep into to
like weird but uh I have this friend
Dion and I do his I love doing his
accent he's South African and uh before
I wrote that song um I remember he used
to say my God bik he's from South Africa
he'd say oh my God you know what the
greatest artists in the world just open
up their mind to the universe and they
let the universe in so when you're
writing just open up your mind to the
universe and I was in the shower and I
was like and I was think I was like you
know what I'm gonna open my mind to it's
so weird but I was like H you know enter
and uh I think weirdly enough for
whatever reason I had like Canon and D
in my
head done and I just want another summer
day is come and gone
away
but I want to go home and the whole
literally almost the whole I mean that
and the pre Bo in in two minutes and I
remember getting out of the shower with
a towel and and those days we didn't
have the iPhone or anything right I had
like a one of those little tap records
and I remember sitting in a tape
recorder and listening back and going oh
no no I've most definitely stole this
from somewhere I stole this from
somewhere and uh it was it was cool and
at that point too my record company they
were like we don't want original songs
you're the Frank guy man you're going to
sing going do the standards and I was
like no I think I can I I write it's
weird even as I got on to writing other
songs I the second record I wrote
everything and hold on or lost to one of
the songs and and I remember the
president of the label we were the video
shoot for everything and he said um man
I wish I would have known that you
wanted original music because we would
have hired we would have hired writer
writers for you and I was like oh my God
this is terrible uh but it's weird man
like you know like it's I'm I live in a
weird place artistically too
right it's you know what I mean I don't
belong and I never did I never did like
I go to those Grammys and stuff and I
would like look around and I was like I
was not in the pop thing and I was not
in a classical thing and I wasn't in a
jazz thing and so many times I was like
early on I was like [__] what what am I
this is weird like I'm doing standards
and yet my you know know I'm on the
radio it was weird still weird sometimes
I think about this when you say this and
I go but isn't not belonging how you end
up doing these kind of numbers because
if you were more of the same
artistically vocally you wouldn't have
have all these Grammys and all the you
know bestselling six multiplatinum
albums five Grammy Awards more billions
of streams than I could possibly count
stream myself a lot yeah but I go if you
were if you were like everybody else you
wouldn't have those
achievements I don't know I wonder it
just feels lonely like sometimes I look
at like like I go to those award shows
even last night at the candy Center
owners I feel like everybody knew each
other like they kept like high-fiving
and then there was like this group of
Broadway people that all know each other
from the functions they do on Broadway
and there was like cool pop people and
like and then there was like me and I
was like I saw Herby Hancock I was so
excited I love Herby Hancock and but I
didn't want to go in it he was talking
to cheetah Rivera and I love her too and
I didn't want to be that guy that went
but um you know what I mean I don't know
where I I mean maybe I'll never know
where I really belong but I'm trying to
say that that's why you're so special I
don't know I even with what I do here I
absolutely don't feel like I belong
anywhere I'm not a journalist and I'm
not qualified to do this I go to they
don't invite me to the awards shows for
journalists and media I'm not invited to
them yeah how how does that work I no I
don't know we I don't know where we sit
I don't even know what we are are we a
podcast but it's on TV it's a this it's
on planes it's on so you do have that
sense of like someone's going to come up
to you and tap you go what are you doing
it's interesting because I feel like I
If you ask me if someone asked me about
you I would I would I would in a
sentence be able to Define what I what I
feel is please give me the sentence oh
man I I honestly think watching you and
watching this show like I have for years
um is a perfect mix of education and
entertainment I don't know how else to
say it it's like really it really is
it's both things I'm I'm often highly
entertained by what's happening but at
the end I feel like I I was educated I
learned something either something um
that is
uh you know either ideas or philosophies
or sometimes it's literally literally
logistic science where you know what I
mean I can't tell you how weird that is
to hear from you someone that I've I've
looked up to since I was a kid at home
in Plymouth all those years ago watching
my TV yeah as you guys know I'm an
investor in a company called Zoe and
also they sponsor this podcast and
they're one of my favorite businesses
literally of all time we're in December
now which is the season of gifting the
season of family gatherings and parties
but what I'll be doing this December is
making sure I double down on my health
because it's this time of year where I
think it's easiest to get distracted and
derailed and that is where Zoe comes in
for many years I thought we all had the
same relationship with food and now I
know that every single person has a
different relationship with every single
type of food and knowing the type of
food that you have the best relationship
with the food that loves you back can
quite literally change your life and
that's where a Zoe membership comes in
so if there was ever a time to become a
Zoe member it is right now in December
that rhymes H I should have been a
rapper for a limited time only you can
get 50 off your Zoe kit with code
ce50 keep this to yourself okay and this
might be the last time that that code is
available use it while you can four kids
Michael I know God they come to you now
line up in front of you here and they go
daddy listen um just need some advice on
this thing called life yeah you know you
you've lived a great life and it's
twisted and turned and all those
wonderful things Daddy what should we
know about the nature of living a good
life
and I say that I dude I they ask me
they don't ask me in that way yeah I was
gonna say Jesus Christ they ask me and I
dude I'm telling you right now I have
the same I have the same answer every
time I say Rich isn't what you think it
is
kid that word Rich that your friends use
Rich sounds like money and stuff and
things and Lamborghinis and tickets to
go see Messi MH that's not rich um rich
is having a strong faith rich is having
a great family and loving your family
rich is having great friends friendships
because those Rich things they're
talking about the money the people that
I know that have the most stuff are the
most miserable people that I
know and I don't know how else to to
explain it you know those are all it's
lovely listen it's easy to say right
it's easy for somebody watching this
podcast to go like well that's easy for
you to say bé you know you got a bunch
of stuff but it doesn't take long to
realize that life has nothing to do with
stuff we're all sitting on that deathbed
we're all going to die every single one
of us and nobody looks back and says
[__] I wish I collected more stuff what
would you regret if that was this If
today was that day nothing my
friend not a thing not one thing not one
thing I have lived a beautiful life and
uh I have been so blessed and I don't
even think it was like I made this thank
guy you know I got great family I got
beautiful you know my wife is the best
thing ever loves me and I got got kids I
look at my four kids I mean I was scared
to have the fourth one I was like oh my
God I'm how are and then now I look at
this little girl cellow and I think like
wow how could I ever how did I live
without her like this like this gorgeous
little fat little beautiful personality
like what I you know not a thing I I and
I say it's funny I said it to my wife
many times you know God forbid you know
it's my time I've said it many times um
I would just know that I would I am
completely satisfied satisfied I have
lived a full and beautiful life and that
I have no
regrets except that I didn't drink more
of this whiskey faster your story is so
incredible the the thing that I mean the
perseverance at the heart of your story
and where you come from and the
fantasizing um about the life that you
now lead all of those things are so
unbelievably inspiring because there's
so many people out out there that are
you know they're Michael at 14 yeah
maybe they're Michael at you know maybe
they are that fantasizing Michael that
was 14 but maybe they're 44 and they're
still holding out hope that maybe those
dreams that ballet dancing in the hills
of Peru or that playing the piano or
starting that business um is it too late
for them and no dude this is going to
sound so cheesy but um dude it is I say
this to people all the time I just did a
um a Master Class thing for these
beautiful kids these underprivileged
kids basically it was in Orange County
and um they didn't have music programs
in their school and the first thing I
said to all of them was uh I talked
about Neil theg grass Tyson and I said
you know the greatest scientist on the
planet will tell you uh that not nothing
cannot make something something cannot
come from nothing I mean I don't care
how many times they run the experiment
it something cannot come from nothing it
cannot exist yet some somehow you
magical little beasts walk into a room
with absolutely nothing and you walk out
with something you are Defying Gravity
you are your magicians
and listen we will be crushed in
relationships our partners will break
our hearts we will have businesses that
fail we'll have doors shut on us and
they'll say no to us a million times but
if you're lucky enough to have something
like music or a passion that you really
fall in love with it will never hurt you
it will never leave you you know it'll
stay loyal to you and to me it's a it's
a massive gift and it's funny I it's
going to sound like a really strange
transition but I love Tik Tok and my
wife said to me go on Tik Tok I said
like I'm too famous to go on T I'm Tik
Tok and she was like you you are Tik Tok
she was like you will love it and I was
like no I'm not going to love it and
then I did my stupid Tik Tok and I I you
know I did a dumb whatever it was the
first Tik Tok and then like I started to
like I was like oh you can go it's not
just about making the Tik Tok which I
because I'm an idiot it was
fun it was about oh wow you can go
through Tik Tock and then the addiction
began and the addiction
wasn't wasn't uh about seeing stupid Tik
toks the addiction was finding those
people you're talking about M and that
was like oh my God like like if I I
don't know where my phone here's my
phone it's in my butt I could go on to
Tik Tok and can I just may I do this out
this is going to be weird but um okay
here's a good example there's a girl
named Julia Michelle voice that's what
she goes under I think she was making
Tik toks from like her her maybe her
parents house or something I don't want
to but like I heard her voice and I was
like oh my God you're she has a
beautiful voice like
and I never would have you know in the
in the way that our structure of
business used to exist and record labels
and stuff dude I never would have heard
her and then there's a girl named
useless Farm who works on a farm where
she has emus that attack
her
and um Adam Rose who is an actor who is
anyway I like I deeply love that I can
go on Tik Tok and it's exactly what
you're talking about where I like see
these people and I'm like oh my God you
are you are tremendous like people need
to know like they and it's funny cuz now
with some of them it's happening and
it's exactly what we were talking about
where it was just inevitable Mr Anderson
people were going to find out because
they're really good you know what I mean
it's just but life just tells you to
[__] get your [__] together and go
get a real job and I know but I think it
might be in this business it might be
changing a little bit with with um
platforms like Tik Tok where you know I
know it sounds so goofy but like dude I
love that there's a community and you
know I love even more that I write them
you write to them yeah man I do I write
to them as me I do every day like I love
oh my god dude that is hilar are people
making fun of me like can I show you one
that I just saw that just say people
think it's your like agent or something
that's or your social media manager
let's see if this can work I'm not I'm
not great with
this maybe
we're going to just do an inter Le while
I
sing surrounded by a million
people
feel I
to let me I don't want to S cuz people
list let me go
[Music]
home cuz I want to dance even though I
feel fat in these pants couldn't
remember the rhyme I'm so sorry that
this is here it is I found it um you
never have to apologize okay sometimes
once in a while like I find stuff like
this and I go
like they're Geniuses like truly
Geniuses so the tting says when you
change when you change when you change
the radio station at the wrong time
Santa Claus Is
Coming oh that was a lead up
but that's a nice window like dude I see
that and I go like
someone like thought of that and then
shared it and it was like I think I
don't even know hundreds of millions of
times people have watched that that's
crazy I think it's crazy I think it's
beautiful and I love that I wrote the
guy I said this is the mashup that I I
didn't know I needed God imagine getting
a message from Michael bobl when when
you've made something so so like
ridiculous that's what the coolest part
of that Tik Tok is is that it isn't
about you no one gives a [__] about me
and by the way I don't even belong on
Tik Tok and no celebrity really does I
think the only way you belong on Tik Tok
is if you understand what Tik Tok is and
Tik Tok is about a community of creators
and like supporting and laughing and and
being inspired and D it's the platform
that you spent 14 15 years fighting for
which you you know what I mean before we
had social media there's people like you
just singing at restaurants and sing
Here There and Everywhere just knocking
on doors pulling someone into a back
room in a banquet and now you don't need
to go and no you know attack David in a
back room no I think it's funny cuz it
started like I remember Bieber Justin
talking to Justin about how how you know
what I mean or even Ed even Ed um it was
uh you know it wasn't Tik Tok but it was
YouTube and bio exactly yeah back in the
day that's where I first jused it's so
different now man and it's like uh but
it's still fundamentally the same
business too where if you
can it's all about live business if you
can do the job of putting people in
seats and to entertain them live cuz
what's really weird is like even talking
with my record company it's like oh they
just we just signed this act it's great
and I go like oh cool like where can I
go see them and they go oh no they don't
T they don't tour no they don't they've
never ever played outside of their
bedroom they've never been in front of
people and you go like
what different but just what it is and
this is not just about music look at me
I use the same platforms to build a show
and do you know what's crazy no one
knows this I went no one knows this
story I went to a big radio station in
the UK before I started this podcast and
I begged them to give me um an audition
I went down there for two hours they
know who they are W Nam them because
either sky or it was one or it was BBC
or was I I won't say which one it was
say okay and I I went there and I did
Capital look I knew dude I knew and I
went in there I sat and there and the
guy wasn't paying attention to me pretty
much at all I sat in there my audition
started the guy that's meant to be
judging my audition takes a phone call
walks out doesn't come back I'm in there
for two hours doing these fake phone
calls I leave the radio station this was
only like three years three four years
ago yeah I leave the radio station I
never hear anything no feedback no you
did well you did badly you were crap
nothing never hear anything so started a
podcast myself which did well yeah uh
and then yeah like a year ago the same
radio station sent me an email saying
hey
love you to come in and do like a little
guest thing to promote your book and I
responded I said I'm still waiting to
hear my feedback to the guy and they
were like and they conducted this in
like internal investigation to find out
why nobody ever got back to me so they
really did yeah they really did because
they sent me an email asking me to come
back and do some like guest appearance I
said I was like I I came they were
asking me to like a guest show or
whatever and I said um I came in and did
an audition and I still haven't heard
back and it's been almost two years now
um but we have these platforms where we
can do it ourself whether you're
podcaster a singer that's what I think I
find so cool about it is that there's no
more the gatekeeper is gone is gone that
one guy who why the hell did why did why
was he the gatekeeper what did he have
the and now it's like no no no now
nobody likes you but the people like the
people get to choose right and and
there's no honestly sometimes like I'll
watch something and there's no even
there's no Rhyme or Reason it just it
resonates man and you go like oh okay
well that's the people have spoken
that's isn't it yeah yeah Michael thank
you thank you we're done we're done okay
fine I just now I'm ready for my second
cup I'm feeling really I'm starting to
feel really good and loose I've got one
more last question for you oh yeah go
yeah we have a closing tradition where
the last guest leaves a question for the
next guest not knowing who they're going
to be leaving it
for interesting the question that's been
left is what was your last big fork in
the road decision and how did you make
it it's coming right literally it's
coming I would say within weeks and I
will make it by speaking to number one
first thing I'll speak to my wife and uh
and then I'll speak to all the people
that I trust and uh and I'll I will uh
weigh what everyone says and then I'll
they'll help me make the decision it's
coming Michael you're you're not going
to quit music are you no no I'm not
never it's impossible that's like saying
are you going to going to stop breathing
dude no no no I like to
breathe and music is is is my breath I
can't I can't stop give me a little bit
of concern that's all when you said oh
no no don't let it be like it's a good
thing oh okay it's just a big you know
just a big
decision interesting yeah we shall wait
and we shall see yeah Michael thank you
so much where do I leave my question for
the next guest in the book oh I'm so
excited I've got so many do thank you so
much
[Music]
as you'll know if you've listened to
this podcast before I'm an investor in a
company called hu I'm on their board and
they sponsor this podcast and I have a
very exciting announcement to make this
product called Daily Greens is one of
the most highly requested products at hu
but it's never been sold in the UK
before until now I've tried a variety of
the different greens products that are
out in the market and this one of course
unbiased but if you try it I think
you'll understand why I'm saying this it
is Maybe and I I have to give this a
little bit more thought but it's May my
favorite heel product ever for all the
reasons I've described delicious 91
nutrients vitamins minerals quick and
easy and it serves to fill one of the
most important parts of my diet which is
getting the greens into my body I've
received hundreds of messages from you
about Daily Greens asking when it's
going to launch in the UK the good news
is it launches in January the link is in
the description below you can sign up
now so that you have access when it
launches because of the band I'm pretty
sure it's going to sell
out do you need a podcast to listen to
next we've discovered that people who
liked this episode also tend to
absolutely love another recent episode
we've done so I've linked that episode
in the description below I know you'll
enjoy
[Music]
it